---
title: Securing Your Services with Let's Encrypt and Certbot
date: 2024-01-10 17:30:00 -0600
category: [Blog, HowTo]
---

As a young homelabber I've used Let's Encrypt to provide SSL certificates for a few of my hosted services. First it was my pfSense firewall, where the process looks something like install a plugin, add an account, specify a few certificate settings and click issue. Next it was Proxmox where the UI was different but overall the steps the same.

The process gets a little more confusing when we venture into the world of services such as Grafana or Graylog. I've found this method works well and requires minimal manual effort.

Let's Encrypt is a nonprofit certificate authority (CA) that provides free SSL/TLS certificates to enable encrypted communication on the web. It was launched in 2015 with the goal of promoting a more secure and privacy-respecting internet. Certbot is an open-source software tool that simplifies the process of obtaining and managing SSL/TLS certificates, primarily from the Let's Encrypt certificate authority. Certbot supports various plugins that allow users to prove ownership of the domain(s).

## Steps

### Requirements

1. Domain & Public DNS provider
2. Server with certbot installed
3. Ability to forward port to certbot

### Step 1

I chose to deploy a LXC container through my hypervisor, Proxmox. You could use something like a Raspberry Pi or even a QEMU virtual machine. Since this service doesn't require high availablity I chose a container which should minimize required resources while allowing me to relocate the service during required maintainence.

Specs:
Alpine 3.18
Unprivileged
8GB disk
1 CPU Core
512MiB RAM

### Step 2

Configure OS

